# TrussMat: Statically Determinate Truss Bridge Solver for EngSci Students
This project was started on December 21st, 2018. The goal of this project is to help First Year Engineering Science students at the University of Toronto with the first bridge project they must complete in CIV102, a civil engineering structural design course. This truss solver solves statically determinate truss bridges with the method of joints, solves the virtual truss bridge at a specified joint, gives you the best possible HSS configuration for each member of the truss and solves the virtual work of the truss.

Project Working Status: In Progress (as of 16-Apr-2019).

## Motivation
As an Engineering Science student myself, I found this project to be quite tedious to complete within the two week frame we were given. It resulted in me having to do my very first all nighter. One of the biggest struggles for me during the project was trying to find a way to check my work. The math behind solving a truss is quite simple and intuitive, but any small error that you make early on can easily propogate. Designated by my group to do the calculation part of the project, which was worth 50% of our grade, I spent most of my time checking my work to ensure that I did not make a calculation error early on. Our group's final grade for the calculations portion was 48/50, and the two marks that we lost were because of calculation errors.

While there are several existing online truss solvers, they come with several disadvantages. The most powerful truss solver that I am aware of is [SkyCiv](https://skyciv.com/), but downloading the software is expensive. Other softwares such as [Fast Truss Solver](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/fast-truss-solver/9pc290v41k2q) are difficult to use and do not have all the features required for the project. A past EngSci student, Steven He, has also created an [truss bridge solver](http://engsci.stevenhe.com/trusssolver2) but is, functionality-wise, limited. TrussMat looks to resolve all of these issues.

## Acknowledgements
Thank you to my TAs Allan Kuan and Brittany Yap for their wonderful CIV102 notes as they were key to developing the program. Thank you to Mosh Hamedani for his wonderful JavaScript tutorials. Another thank you to Marijn Haverbeke for her amazing online textbook, [Eloquent Javascript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/), from which I not only learned the fundamentals of JavaScript and the most useful JavaScript syntax, but also how I can approach building this program from afar.